OSDOCS-9882-BMH-2: Second installment of bug batching the BMH big fixes (#77896)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-16-release-notes.adoc

* Previously, the Bare Metal Operator (BMO) was not using a leader lock to control incoming and outgoing Operator pod traffic. After an OpenShift `Deployment` object included a new Operator pod, the new pod competed with system resources, such as the `ClusterOperator` status, and this terminated any outgoing Operator pods. This issue also impacted clusters that do not include any bare-metal nodes. With this release, the BMO includes a leader lock to manage new pod traffic, and this fix resolves the competing pod issue. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-25766[*OCPBUGS-25766*])

* Previously, when you attempted to delete a `BareMetalHost` object before the installation started, the metal3 Operator attempted to create a `PreprovImage` image. The process of creating this image caused the `BareMetalHost` object to still exist in certain processes. With this release, an exception is added for this situation so that the `BareMetalHost` object is deleted without impacting running processes. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-33048[*OCPBUGS-33048*])

> * Previously, a Redfish virtual media Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) integrated Lights Out (iLO) 5 bare-metal machine's compression was forcibly disabled to workaround other unrelated issues in different hardware models. This caused the `FirmwareSchema` resource to be missing from each iLO 5 bare-metal machine. Each machine needs compression to fetch message registries from their Redfish Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) endpoints. With this release, each iLO 5 bare-metal machine that needs the `FirmwareSchema` resource does not have compression forcibly disabled. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-31104[*OCPBUGS-31104*])

Reviewer: Not any actual feedback but "Redfish virtual media Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) integrated Lights Out (iLO) 5 bare-metal machine" is simply a brutal phrase, though I think it's probably unavoidable.

Author: Updated to "a Redfish virtual media in the context of Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) Lights Out (iLO) 5".

> * Previously, a Redfish virtual media Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) integrated Lights Out (iLO) 5 bare-metal machine's compression was forcibly disabled to workaround other unrelated issues in different hardware models. This caused the `FirmwareSchema` resource to be missing from each iLO 5 bare-metal machine. Each machine needs compression to fetch message registries from their Redfish Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) endpoints. With this release, each iLO 5 bare-metal machine that needs the `FirmwareSchema` resource does not have compression forcibly disabled. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-31104[*OCPBUGS-31104*])

Reviewer: Grammar: split workaround into two words when not using it as a noun:
```suggestion
* Previously, a Redfish virtual media Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) integrated Lights Out (iLO) 5 bare-metal machine's compression was forcibly disabled to work around other unrelated issues in different hardware models. This caused the `FirmwareSchema` resource to be missing from each iLO 5 bare-metal machine. Each machine needs compression to fetch message registries from their Redfish Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) endpoints. With this release, each iLO 5 bare-metal machine that needs the `FirmwareSchema` resource does not have compression forcibly disabled. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-31104[*OCPBUGS-31104*])
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

> * Previously, a Redfish virtual media Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) integrated Lights Out (iLO) 5 bare-metal machine's compression was forcibly disabled to workaround other unrelated issues in different hardware models. This caused the `FirmwareSchema` resource to be missing from each iLO 5 bare-metal machine. Each machine needs compression to fetch message registries from their Redfish Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) endpoints. With this release, each iLO 5 bare-metal machine that needs the `FirmwareSchema` resource does not have compression forcibly disabled. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-31104[*OCPBUGS-31104*])

Reviewer: I think bare metal is also just two words without a hyphen:
```suggestion
* Previously, a Redfish virtual media Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) integrated Lights Out (iLO) 5 bare metal machine's compression was forcibly disabled to workaround other unrelated issues in different hardware models. This caused the `FirmwareSchema` resource to be missing from each iLO 5 bare metal machine. Each machine needs compression to fetch message registries from their Redfish Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) endpoints. With this release, each iLO 5 bare metal machine that needs the `FirmwareSchema` resource does not have compression forcibly disabled. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-31104[*OCPBUGS-31104*])
```

Author: ![Screenshot from 2024-06-24 09-34-02](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/assets/57954076/5387ca3b-d2a8-4cad-ae2e-a80f4608b854)

> * Previously, the `inspector.ipxe` configuration used the `IRONIC_IP` variable, which did not account for IPv6 addresses because they have brackets. Consequently, when the user supplied an incorrect `boot_mac_address`, iPXE fell back to the `inspector.ipxe` configuration, which supplied a malformed IPv6 host header since it did not contain brackets. With this release, the `inspector.ipxe` configuration has been updated to the the `IRONIC_URL_HOST` variable, which accounts for IPv6 addresses and resolves the issue. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-22699[*OCPBUGS-22699*])

Reviewer: I believe this is a file and should be described as one? Not sure:
```suggestion
* Previously, the `inspector.ipxe` configuration file used the `IRONIC_IP` variable, which did not account for IPv6 addresses because they have brackets. Consequently, when the user supplied an incorrect `boot_mac_address`, iPXE fell back to the `inspector.ipxe` configuration file, which supplied a malformed IPv6 host header since it did not contain brackets. With this release, the `inspector.ipxe` configuration file has been updated to the the `IRONIC_URL_HOST` variable, which accounts for IPv6 addresses and resolves the issue. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-22699[*OCPBUGS-22699*])
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

> * Previously, the `inspector.ipxe` configuration used the `IRONIC_IP` variable, which did not account for IPv6 addresses because they have brackets. Consequently, when the user supplied an incorrect `boot_mac_address`, iPXE fell back to the `inspector.ipxe` configuration, which supplied a malformed IPv6 host header since it did not contain brackets. With this release, the `inspector.ipxe` configuration has been updated to the the `IRONIC_URL_HOST` variable, which accounts for IPv6 addresses and resolves the issue. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-22699[*OCPBUGS-22699*])

Reviewer: I think this is the word they're trying to use here:
```suggestion
* Previously, the `inspector.ipxe` configuration used the `IRONIC_IP` variable, which did not account for IPv6 addresses because they have brackets. Consequently, when the user supplied an incorrect `boot_mac_address`, iPXE fell back to the `inspector.ipxe` configuration, which supplied a malformed IPv6 host header since it did not contain brackets. With this release, the `inspector.ipxe` configuration has been updated to use the `IRONIC_URL_HOST` variable, which accounts for IPv6 addresses and resolves the issue. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-22699[*OCPBUGS-22699*])
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

* Previously, when you attempted to delete a `BareMetalHost` object before the installation started, the metal3 Operator attempted to create a `PreprovImage` image. The process of creating this image caused the `BareMetalHost` object to still exist in certain processes. With this release, an exception is added for this situation so that the `BareMetalHost` object is deleted without impacting running processes. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-33048[*OCPBUGS-33048*])

* Previously, a Redfish virtual media in the context of Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) Lights Out (iLO) 5 had its bare-metal machine compression forcibly disabled to work around other unrelated issues in different hardware models. This caused the `FirmwareSchema` resource to be missing from each iLO 5 bare-metal machine. Each machine needs compression to fetch message registries from their Redfish Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) endpoints. With this release, each iLO 5 bare-metal machine that needs the `FirmwareSchema` resource does not have compression forcibly disabled. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-31104[*OCPBUGS-31104*])

> * Previously, the `inspector.ipxe` configuration file used the `IRONIC_IP` variable, which did not account for IPv6 addresses because they have brackets. Consequently, when the user supplied an incorrect `boot_mac_address`, iPXE fell back to the `inspector.ipxe` configuration file, which supplied a malformed IPv6 host header since it did not contain brackets. With this release, the `inspector.ipxe` configuration file has been updated to use the `IRONIC_URL_HOST` variable, which accounts for IPv6 addresses and resolves the issue. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-22699[*OCPBUGS-22699*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, the `inspector.ipxe` configuration file used the `IRONIC_IP` variable, which did not account for IPv6 addresses because they have brackets. Consequently, when the user supplied an incorrect `boot_mac_address`, iPXE fell back to the `inspector.ipxe` configuration file, which supplied a malformed IPv6 host header that did not contain brackets. With this release, the `inspector.ipxe` configuration file has been updated to use the `IRONIC_URL_HOST` variable, which accounts for IPv6 addresses and resolves the issue. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-22699[*OCPBUGS-22699*])
```
probably what is really meant; going to merge anyway
